
FICS-ICS Differences

  The FICS is an internet chess server that was written from scratch
by Richard Nash.

SIMILARITIES:
  The FICS was definitely written with the ICS in mind. It is my intention
to permit ICS users to easily use both systems. To that end, I have
duplicated all of the board styles and most of the commands. If your
interface (xboard, giiic, ...) has trouble parsing FICS's output,
please report the problem. Even better, fix the problem and send me the
fix.

WHAT'S BETTER:
1. It's free. Not free in the sense of you don't have to pay money for
   it (it is of course that also), I mean free in the sense that you
   can get access to the source code. It is my hope that this difference
   will propel the FICS into becoming the better server in the long run.
   Also, this allows multiple servers to be set up, hopefully minimizing
   lag. If you want to set up your own server, login to the server and
   type 'help newservers'.

2. There is a distributed ratings server. This allows your ratings to
   be valid on a number of different servers. You can play wherever
   you find the best competition, or have the least lag and your
   ratings will follow you there.

3. You can play SIMULS. Login to the server and type 'help simuls'

4. You can takeback, switch sides, or pause the clock if your opponent
   agrees.

5. You can set your games to be private so they can't be observed.

6. A 'query' command for asking serious questions. Like shout, except the
   i_shout flag doesn't stop it. You are limited to 2 query's per hour.

7. You can load positions from a stored database to use as your starting
   position for a game. (This is how wild games are implemented.)

WHAT'S DIFFERENT:
1. When your clock hits zero it stays there even if you have an
   increment. Essentially, your flag cannot un-fall like the current
   ICS.

2. There are probably a million minor differences in the way things are
   displayed or in command syntaxes.

3. The lists are kept in the 'old' style. +censor and +channel don't
   work.

4. Some of the descriptive notation move inputs are not accepted by
   FICS. Things line NxP and pxp should be writtend in algebraic.

WHAT'S WORSE:
1. Some of the commands are not implemented at all or not as well as the
   ICS. Most notably 'who', 'players', and 'messages'.

2. An algabraic deparser is needed. Currently the move output is computer
   style.

3. It may be buggy. It is new software and there are bound to be bugs. I
   hope a growing FICS community will help find and clean up the bugs.

GOAL:
  While the ICS goes on making better and niftier ways to talk to
  each other, I hope that the FICS will be better for those interested
  in playing chess. Improvements in the chess area (ie. analysis tools,
  setting up positions, etc...) will take presidence in development.

WINNERS AND LOSERS:
  Log into the server and type 'help soapbox'

See Also: sourcecode todo soapbox simuls
